#summary Getting started with Daggerfall Connect.
#labels Featured

= Your First Daggerfall Connect Application =

This tutorial will demonstrate how to:
  * Create a new project in Visual C# Express.
  * Import the Daggerfall Connect DLL.
  * Enumerate texture files from Daggerfall's ARENA2 folder.
  * Open each texture file and output a description.

== Getting Started ==

  # Download and extract the latest version of Daggerfall Connect from [http://code.google.com/p/daggerfallconnect/downloads/list Downloads].
  # Create a new project in Visual C# Express using *File* -> *New Project* and select _"Console Application"_ as the project type. Name the project and click *OK*.
  # Add a reference to the !DaggerfallConnect.dll using *Project* -> *Add Reference*. Click the *Browse* tab and navigate to *!DaggerfallConnect.dll* from your downloaded.
  # Open *Program.cs* in *Solution Explorer* and replace all code with the block shown below.
  # Set variable MyArena2Path to your Daggerfall installations ARENA2 folder. Daggerfall Connect is read only and will not modify your game files.
  # Build and run your application pressing *Ctrl+F5*.

== Code ==

<pre>
using System;
using DaggerfallConnect;

namespace Tutorial_BasicSeries_1
{
    /// <summary>
    /// This tutorial demonstrates basic enumeration of image files.
    /// </summary>
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            // Specify Arena2 path of local Daggerfall installation
            string MyArena2Path = "C:\\dosgames\\DAGGER\\ARENA2";

            // Instantiate ImageFileReader
            ImageFileReader MyImageFileReader = new ImageFileReader(MyArena2Path);

            // Set desired library type
            MyImageFileReader.LibraryType = LibraryTypes.Texture;

            // Output information about each file in library
            foreach (DFImageFile file in MyImageFileReader)
                Console.WriteLine("{0} - {1}", file.FileName, file.Description);
        }
    }
}
</pre>

== Output ==

<pre>
...
TEXTURE.484 - Light Thief
TEXTURE.485 - Normal Mage
TEXTURE.486 - Normal Mage
TEXTURE.487 - Medium Fighter
TEXTURE.488 - Medium Fighter
TEXTURE.489 - Thief Mage
TEXTURE.490 - Thief Mage
TEXTURE.491 - Female heavy horse
TEXTURE.492 - Male heavy horse
TEXTURE.493 - Female medium horse
TEXTURE.494 - Male medium horse
TEXTURE.495 - Female light horse
TEXTURE.500 - Rain Forest
TEXTURE.501 - Sub_Tropical
TEXTURE.502 - Swamp
TEXTURE.503 - Desert
TEXTURE.504 - Temperate woodland
TEXTURE.505 - Snow woodland
TEXTURE.506 - Woodland Hills
TEXTURE.507 - Snow woodland Hills
TEXTURE.508 - Haunted woodland
TEXTURE.509 - Snow haunted woodlan
TEXTURE.510 - mountains
TEXTURE.511 - Snow Mountains
Press any key to continue . . .
</pre>